So now that we have our book repository done, what we need to do is go to our app module and do the
same thing with Apple with provide book API, which means we need to add this dependency.
Through our app module so everybody else can actually get it.
Someone say at Singleton again and then provides and then we're going to say find provide book repository
as such and then we're going to pass our API.
We need that.
We start book API.
And just then.
Send it to our book repository
and we pass, of course, the API.
Okay.
All of this is going to be used internally.
We're not going to directly invoke these providers, but Dagger and Hilton will be able to use all of
that internally when we are ready to use inside of our view model.
So now it's time.
Let's get rid of all of these classes we've been working on.
Now it's time for us to then created the View model, which will allow us to then use repository, which
repository uses the book API, which is DAO.
And then down the line we have our retrofit, which is going to be able to get information from our
database.
Right.
So let's go back to our screens and we are inside of her.
Let's go to our search.
Okay.
So here I'm going to create package, going to go ahead and say command new colony class.
I'm going to create a view model.
So it's going to be normal class in my see books or book search view model search.
And what are we going to do first so that we don't forget we're going to see that hilt view model like
this.
And then we're going to use that inject.
Their constructor.
Injecting a dependency.
That's the beauty.
What is that?
We want?
Where?
We want access to our repository.
Because a repository knows how to get the books.
Why so many say Private Val repository as such.
And there you have it.
So inside now I'm going to create a variable set var.
It's a list of books and this is going to be actually a type.
Okay.
What type am I going to add or create here?
Well, the type is going to be again, I'm going to say mutable state like this.
Right.
And of type, what is going to be of type data?
Or exception like this, which is going to be a list of items our own item like this.
So these have to be the same that we created earlier.
So let's finalize this before we move forward.
And then I'm going to pass here a boolean
and pass.
Of course, an exception like that.
And I'm going to set it up for this to be a mutable.
List of mutable state should say mutable state.
List of mutable state of like that.
End of what types?
Well, it's going to be data or exception.
It's going to pass.
No true.
And just pass an exception.
And it has nothing in the constructor.
I think that so have too many things here.
I don't need that that.
Let's get rid of that.
Well, I do a lot of things here.
So what are we doing here?
Because remember, we are we said that we are wrapping our list item inside of our data or exception.
All right.
That class, we created this one data class.
Right.
And so we have to make sure that the types that we're getting, you know, a list of books is going
to be that, but also going to wrap that inside of a mutable state.
Because, remember, we need to have a state attached to all of these books that we get because they
will be sent to our user interface in this case composable.
So the composable will know how to recompose themselves to add that data, to show that data.
Okay.
So then I'm going to have an init block here.
I want to get something in this case.
I'm just going to call the search books and pass in this case, Android.
We haven't created a search book yet, so let's go ahead and create that.
So it's going to be a function and I'm going to pass the query.
And what is going to happen here?
I'm going to say view model.
Scope.
You see, we have an issue here.
The reason being is because this is actually not going to be viewed as a new model because we haven't
inherited from.
Yes.
View model.
Android lifecycle like this.
Okay.
There we go.
So now we will have to will be able to import our view model scope, because then we can invoke the
launch.
Certain processes that we need to be very careful as to not interfere with anything else in the user
interface.
So we can even make it even better by saying this pictures and say IO.
In this case we just saying, okay, whatever we want to add in this launch block here it is core routine
as as as it's called.
We can launch we can actually give more space or more lanes, if you will, for the to be able to run
parallel to each other.
In this case, I would say if query, just make sure it is empty so there's nothing being passed from
our query when we try to get something.
I'm just going to say return.
I'd like like this.
So.
So we do nothing.
And then here I'm going to say list of books or mutable state, dot value, dot loading.
I'm going to set that to true because that's what's happening now and then also data or list of books
that value.
And when I set that to repository that get books like that and pass our search query, which is our
query, and then I'm going to set check it, check if list of books.
That value and the data say to string is not empty like this.
Then I know that data.
And then when I see list of books that value loading in this case, I'm going to set that to false to
say, well, we're done loading and things are good.
And now, of course, we're calling these search books and passing a query so that we have some data
in the beginning.
In this case, when I guess search for Android books.
Now let's go ahead and test to see if this actually works.
Let's go to let's get rid of this.
We want to go to our book search there.
And what are we going to do inside of our search screen?
We're also going to pass we don't need to pass this anymore because we don't need to look at our preview.
So I'm going to delete that.
Okay.
So what I'm going to pass also here, I'm going to pass a view model which is going to be our book search
view model.
And I'm going to go ahead instantiated to view models like this, which means then we can pass along
our surface.
Can require a feel model to be passed as well as a few model.
This.
Go back here.
I will have to pass.
Our review model.
It's going to be out of the model that we created at the top here.
Okay.
So I can just get rid of this because they have the same name, so that's fine.
And then that means inside here, remember, we are inside of our search form.
And if you go back to our search form, we have to go and search, which is going to pass the string,
which is going to be whatever users added here.
Right.
So conveniently, we can then inside here we have that we can actually change this to query.
And now I can see a few model that's being passed.
Dot search books and the query is going to be the query just like that.
Which means I can put a log D here, log d.
I will say I'm going to pass a list.
Of books that value data.
Like this.
Say to strength so we can see that screen representation.
Say data like this.
Okay, folks, as well, we should be able to see search at least what we are searching for.
Let's see.
Make sure everything is good.
We should be good.
All right, let's save.
Okay, let's go ahead and give it a run.
Fingers crossed.
We haven't made any mistakes.
We should be able to see that everything is working.
Hopefully see the payload of our search.
All right.
There it is.
Everything seems to still work.
Let's see.
Now let's go to search and nothing is working.
Maybe we made a mistake.
Let's go and look at the run.
Log here.
A view more provider create factory.
Let's see.
Okay.
Book search view model.
That's not working.
Okay, so I think I know what the problem is.
Okay.
Let's go to our Cecil book search review model.
So instead of doing this, let's just go straight because sometimes I think we're using a different
library.
So let's say Hilt View model.
Or just a lower case hilt view model like this.
Okay, let's give it a try with this.
And if that doesn't work, then we'll assess from there.
Okay.
So let's run.
Look at it again because you I'll see.
I'll show you what the problem is in a second here.
It looks like says reading as say that was created after the snapshot was taken or in a soundtrack that
has not yet been applied.
Let's common this out for a second just to see if that will solve.
Okay.
So that was the problem.
Somehow this list of books, we make sense because we are we hadn't actually set up our list of books.
So that's why we're having that issue to say this wasn't ready to be used before.
We actually had instantiated and added something to it.
So that was a problem there.
All right.
So everything is now working because you see.
There we go.
Of course, we're not seeing anything there.
But because we have created this search box in a net, you know, if you model there.
So we have Android.
So we should see books pertaining to Android as you see here.
So we got all of this information says Android for Dummy, one of the books.
So this is great.
Now let's see what happens if we search for something.
Let's say flutter seed.
Enter.
And we should have.
Flatter.
You see, I can see that something else happened because we have flatter now showing there.
In fact, let's go to at I think this will be more helpful and I'll say data.
Okay.
There we go.
So you can see.
Why did we call this data like that?
You go there.
Okay.
So this was called and we have it.
It's working.
And it's a flatter click.
Of course we see that we should have some sort of flutter.
They would go.
If I change something else.
Let's see.
I'd say money making.
And he and her can see that we have something else making money so as to the payload.
So now everything is working.
This is really, really good, right?
Instead of making this private, let's just say Val like this.
Just want to make sure that perhaps we can make this to work.
Because I want to set our list of books.
Value the loading of our object to true.
Let's see if we can get this to work.
This one once again.
Okay.
Let's run.
So we still have this problem here.
Okay, so it seems like if I remove the dispatch io, then I don't have this problem so I can still
have this list of value and load into.
True.
So let's just remove the the dispatch there and run again.
We should be able to see that we have no problem and be able to set our loading to true.
Okay, let's run.
There we go.
So that's good.
And we have no problems.
We can still search Logcat.
Let me clear all of this.
I search for something else.
See?
Web development.
Enter.
Okay.
So you see, everything is working perfectly.
That's very good.
So that was just a little glitch there.
But that's okay.
Just remove that and we should be good.
And looks like this is who wants to make it private.
That's totally fine.
Okay.
There we go.
So we are able to put together the infrastructure that allows us to get information right it search
books, and we can actually add search terms and we get the information.
So this will good of course not that we have that data coming in.
We can then get that data, put that in an object and start populating our list here.